<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Strict//EN"
                      "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-strict.dtd">
<?xml-stylesheet type="text/css" href="pacific.css"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <title>Pacific Voyage Accounts for Injured Islanders and Cook Elegiasts</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <h1><b>Pacific Voyage Accounts for Injured Islanders and Cook Elegiasts</b></h1>
        
            <h2><b>Handy Reference on Voyages</b></h2>
        <p>We have lots of voyages to try to keep track of. This site is a handy reference guide for us: <a href="http://libweb5.princeton.edu/visual_materials/maps/websites/pacific/contents.html">http://libweb5.princeton.edu/visual_materials/maps/websites/pacific/contents.html</a></p>
        <p>This South Seas site may also be useful for us: <a href="http://southseas.nla.gov.au/index.html">http://southseas.nla.gov.au/index.html</a><br />
            Its scope looks comprehensive for the period of 1760-1800, but it's sadly incomplete--and I wonder if their project lost funding around 2004...Anyway, have a look at the Cultural Atlases and maps here. Ours will likely be different, since we have Google Earth to work with now, but this does give us a sense of what we might try.</p>
        <h2><b>Wallis Voyage:</b></h2>
        <p>Along with the Forster narratives discussed below, The Injured Islanders team should work with the account of Captain Wallis's visit to Tahiti in his 1766-1768 Voyage in the Dolphin. Wallis is a significant character in The Injured Islanders, since he's the captain that Oberea is addressing in her lament within the poem. Also the Wallis voyage literally represents the first account of Otaheite. Here's a good digital text (huzzah!): </p>
        <!--break--><p>Hawkesworth, John. An Account of the Voyages undertaken by the order of His present Majesty for making Discoveries in the Southern Hemisphere, And successively performed by Commodore Byron, Captain Wallis, Captain Carteret, and Captain Cook, In the Dolphin, the Swallow, and the Endeavour: drawn up From the Journals which were kept by the several Commanders, And from the Papers of Joseph Banks, Esq. 3 vols. London, 1773.<br />
            **For Wallis at Tahiti, see <b>Vol. 1</b>, find the <b>second set of numbered chapters</b> (Wallis), <b>chaps IV - IX.</b>. Thanks to the ECCO Text Creation Partnership, we actually have an excellent digital text file to work with:<br />
            ECCO TCP (text creation partnership): <a href="http://quod.lib.umich.edu/e/ecco?c=ecco;iel=4;view=toc;idno=004846500.0001.001">http://quod.lib.umich.edu/e/ecco?c=ecco;iel=4;view=toc;idno=004846500.0001.001</a></p>
        <p>Full Text (with good clear structural divisons): <a href="http://quod.lib.umich.edu/e/ecco/004846500.0001.001?rgn=main;view=fulltext">http://quod.lib.umich.edu/e/ecco/004846500.0001.001?rgn=main;view=fulltext</a></p>
        <p>*****************************************</p>
        <h2><b>Forster Texts:</b></h2> <p>On Fri. evening 2/1, I spent some time looking for available text-based editions of 18th-century voyage accounts especially important to the Injured Islanders team. We know this poem is remarkable for its unusually sensitive approach to Tahitian culture, and this seems likely because it cites publications by the Forsters, (Johann Reinhold Forster and his son Georg), a father and son team of naturalists who traveled with Cook on his second Pacific Voyage on the HMS Resolution. Both the father and the son published accounts of the 2nd voyage, and there's excellent ethnographic content in each for us to work with.  </p>
        <p><b>Here are the two Forster texts we're seeking: </b></p>
        <p>1. Forster, Johann Reinhold. Observations made during a voyage round the world, on physical geography, natural history, and ethic philosophy. Especially on: 1. The earth and its strata; 2. Water and the ocean; 3. The atmosphere; 4. The changes of the globe; 5. Organic bodies; and 6. The human species.London: G. Robinson, 1778.</p><p>
            NOTE: We probably just need Chapter 6 (the last chapter) of this for cultural references, though we should search it for references to natural phenomena in the poem...<br /><a href="http://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/pt?id=uc1.31822022888960;seq=20;view=1up;num=i">located on Hathi Trust Digital Library </a>, which offers <a href="http://babel.hathitrust.org/cgi/pt?id=uc1.31822022888960;page=root;seq=623;view=plaintext;size=100;orient=0;num=594"> an uneven plain text OCR version</a>. The first pages of the plain text are the worst (wherever there's text of varying font size in the original), so I think we could get by with working with this. Wish I could find something better. :-[ --NOT in the ECCO database. </p>
        <p>2. Forster, Georg. A voyage round the world in His Britannic Majesty's sloop, Resolution, commanded by Capt. James Cook, during the years 1772, 3, 4, and 5. In two volumes. London, 1777.</p>
<p>*We can find Georg Forster's <i>Voyage Round the World</i> in the ECCO database, but this will only give us a PDF file to work with, which we could try converting via OCR--Having tried this before with 18th-century typography, it's not a pretty process.  It may be possible to train the OCR to recognize things like the long s, but it's going to be problematic.<br /><br/>
            **Nicholas Thomas (major Pacific historian in our times) has recently made good editions of each of these, and Scott found his 2000 edition of Georg Forster's voyage account in ebrary in the Pitt library system. It would be better for us to work with 18th century texts, but it's going to be hard to find good plain text versions. Neither is available in Project Gutenberg.<br />
            (Nicholas Thomas notes that the only English edition of this is printed by Benjamin White in 1777, but it has been frequently reprinted in German! I bet we could find a good unicode text of it in German...)<br />
            ***As Scott noticed, there *is* a way to copy clean plain text from the ebrary edition, and we may just want to run with this, going paragraph by paragraph and plopping it into oXygen with <code>&lt;p&gt;</code> tags around it... </p>
        <h2><b>Cook's Second Voyage:</b></h2>
        <p> For the Cook Elegaists, we know we need to work with this text, since Seward's information seems to be drawn from it in particular:<br />
            Cook, James. A Voyage towards the South Pole, and round the World. Performed in His Majesty's ships the Resolution and Adventure, in the years 1772, 1773, 1774, and 1775. . . In which is included, Captain Furneaux’s Narrative of his Proceedings in the Adventure. 2 vols. London, 1777.<br />
            Volume 1: [NOTE the Plain Text UTF-8 links]<br /><a href="http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/15777">http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/15777</a></p>
        <p>Volume 2: <a href="http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/15869">http://www.gutenberg.org/ebooks/15869</a></p>
        <p>I have started with making folders and chapters of the Cook Voyage account into basic TEI XML files.</p>
        <h2><b>Cook's Death at Hawaii:</b></h2> <p>Seward wrote her "Elegy on Captain Cook" within months of the first news reported back of Cook's death, during his THIRD voyage. The published account of Cook's last voyage wasn't yet available to her, but we may want to look at it anyway in our coding of voyage accounts. For this, we have an excellent ECCO TCP text:</p>
        <p>Journal of Captain Cook's last voyage, to the Pacific Ocean: on Discovery: performed in the years 1776, 1777, 1778, 1779, and 1780. Illustrated with cuts, and a chart, ...<br />
            Author: Rickman, John.  Publication Info: London : printed for E. Newbery, 1785.<br />
            We want Part II: <a href="http://quod.lib.umich.edu/e/ecco/004895036.0001.000/1:8?iel=4;rgn=div1;view=fulltext">http://quod.lib.umich.edu/e/ecco/004895036.0001.000/1:8?iel=4;rgn=div1;view=fulltext</a>.</p>
        <p>For the complex events of Cook's death and what happened to his body on "O-Why-Hee": look at<b> pages 291 onward (to around p. 317 or so...) </b></p>
    </body>
</html>